#Tile editor

#Building

This project depends on libdansdl2.a and herramientas_proyecto, both available on https://github.com/TheMarlboroMan/

In order to compile, you need:

- libdansdl2.a, classic branch.
- herramientas_proyecto, classic branch.

Just in case, I added the neccesary dependencies in the "dependencies" folder... This is old software, unlikely to get updated, as I'd rather write it again.

For its input, it needs sprite sheets generated by this other tool:
	https://github.com/TheMarlboroMan/tabla_sprites

##How to use

Pressing F1 in the application brings up a help screen.

If you want to use the bundled example:

	./a.out res=800x600 out=ejemplo/result.dat cfg=ejemplo/config.dat

Notice that in this weird example, config.dat does point to other files, such as the tileset (tile.dat), its corresponding picture (default_tiles.png) and the logic objects configuration (objetos_config.dat).

Example configuration files are provided in the "ejemplo" directory... There is an example tileset in data/graficos.

Here follows a translation of the output of the tool, when used without parameters:

Use: executable res=WxH out=output_file cfg=config_file
	./a.out res=800x600 out=out.dat cfg=config.dat

PARAMETERS:
	res: Screen resolution expressed as width x height.
	out: Name of the output file. If the file exists, the map will be loaded.
	cfg: Name of the configuration file, made up of N lines with this format:

		T	sprite_sheet_name	comment_character	|	path_to_graphics	alpha	r_value_for_alpha	g_value_for_alpha	b_value_for_alpha
		O	path_to_object_definition

	The first T or O characters determine if the line defines a set of tiles or a set of objects. All sets specified will be loaded.

	Sprite sheets are generated with the "editor_sprites" tool.

	Object format is:
		id	name	width	height	default_color
			property_name	default_color
			property_name	default_color
			property_name	default_color
		id	name	width	height	default_color
			property_name	default_color
		[...]

##History

- As of November 5th, 2015, the tool has been patched with a compatibility layer to support the many changes made to the original libdansdl2. Should the tool be updated, the compatibility layer will be removed. The tool now needs the SDL2_ttf library to link with (even though it's not used).
- As of July 2017 the dependencies have been added and the project has been patched to work with the bundled dependencies.-

##Todo

- Add some kind of message to know things are being saved.

##Bugs
